Reading Reflections Week 1:
What changed in your understanding of AI use in schools after this week?
I really appreciated the framing of AI governance as a leadership mindset vs.a piece of paper, checklist, or act of compliance. The definitions of AI Ethics, Responsible AI, and AI Governance provided a nice mental model as I engaged with this week’s readings and I didn’t have that walking in. 

In my work with schools to date, I see folks asking for pieces of each of these foundations, but not the whole picture. For example, I have worked with districts to develop guiding principles for the use of AI, and many have had conversations about what those principles look like in the classroom. However, examining decision making through the lens of those principles and doing the work to calibrate an entire leadership team or district is a long term pursuit for many. 

I have worked with schools to ensure they are selecting tools that protect the rights and privacy of students. But the conversation in this week’s readings about how the software behaves and assessing risk on an ongoing basis is something I think far fewer folks are discussing and/or have systems to address. 

And finally, the documentation and oversight piece. This is such a tough one for schools because there is so, so much being asked of them. I appreciate how simple and straightforward the inventory process that you have shared is, and can see how useful this will be for education-facing organizations. The note that risk is not determined by the tool itself but by how it is used and who and how it impacts beneficiaries was deeply resonant and a lens I didn’t have walking into this content. 

The act of creating evidence of learning has been very eye opening. I am a visual person and the graphic below was what I created with the course definitions to help me better visualize how they work together. In general, the reflection activities have forced me to think about how I would share my learning with others. I was kind of blown away by the inventory activity and how much data is being collected by my use of a single tool. Appreciate these application-based and reflective activities to solidify and make visible my learning, thank you.
