AI Inventory Template:
1. Tool Name: Canva
2. Tool Provider: Canva Pty Ltd
3. Lead User: Julie, Business Owner
4. Part of a larger platform? No.
5. Purpose and Use: branded templates, resource design
6. Users: Staff only
7. Student Age Group: NA
8. How is the tool accessed? Business license, used for business purposes
9. Does the tool interact directly with students? No
10. Does the tool make or influence any decisions about students or staff? No
11. Can the decisions or outputs of the tool be overridden by a human? Yes. Users can edit
and make decisions about what outputs to keep, change, or discard.
12. What type of AI system is this, based upon function? Content generation
13. Risk Classification: Limited Risk
14. What kind of data does this tool process? Per the Canva Terms of Service, they collect
name, email, phone #, payment detail, IP address, device type, location, info about how
users interact with the platform, messages sent through Canva (feedback, queries,
prompts) and info uploaded to Canva (photos, content, etc.), If you link 3rd party apps,
they collect username for that app as well as any info you have given the 3rd party app
permission to share through their terms of service. Canva may also collect publicly
available info about its users and their role, company, etc. from third party sites like
LinkedIn, etc. Canva uses cookies to identify your device and collects location data.
15. Where is the data stored/ processed? Per Canva, data is stored in the United States. It is
processed in Australia, New Zealand, the Phillippines, the UK, Singapore, Europe and
the US.
16. Is there clear information available for students, parents, or staff about how the tool
works. Yes.
17. Is the tool accessible and inclusive? Canva has some accessibility features: Alt text,
translation pages, video captions, light/ dark modes, keyboard shortcuts, multiple
languages for screen readers, and pdf accessibility features.
18. Who monitors or reviews the outputs? As the business owner, I do
19. Has this tool been reviewed since its adoption. This is the first time, though it is less than
1 year since purchased for the business.
20. Is the use of this tool still ongoing? Yes, in active use
21. Final Notes: None
